Codebook for “Research Librarian Data 20240226”

The purpose of this document is to offer guidance for interpreting the variables from the publicly posted data from Lehr et al.’s GPT as Research Librarian study.

GPT-Generated Reference  - This column contains the citations and summaries generated by ChatGPT for this study.

Topic – This column contains a brief description of the topic (out of 25 possibilities) for which ChatGPT pulled the reference.

ID – This column contains a unique numeric ID to identify each instance of reference-generation.

GPT Version – This column contains the model (GPT-4 vs. GPT-3.5) that pulled each reference.

Broadness Level – This column contains a numeric description of the Topic Broadness for the relevant literature review.  5 corresponds to “Broad” topics, 4 to “Somewhat Broad”, 3 to “Moderate”, 2 to “Somewhat Narrow” and 1 to “Narrow”.

Accuracy – This column contains raw final coding of each reference as Correct (“C”), an Error (“E”) or a Hallucination (“H”).

Incomplete – This column contains coding for the citation’s completeness.  “0” designates a complete reference, and “1” designates an incomplete reference.

Is Hallucination (vs. Others) – This column marks each reference as “1” if it is a Hallucination, and as 0 if it is Correct or contains more minor Error(s).

Is Error (vs. Others) – This column marks each reference as “1” if it is an Error, and as 0 if it is Correct or a Hallucination.

Relevance – This column contains raw final coding for Relevance, with “R” meaning the reference was coded as relevant, and “I” meaning it was coded as Irrelevant.

Acknowledged as Fiction – This column contains a “0” if ChatGPT presented the reference (or references in the chat) as real, and a “1” if it noted that the reference(s) are “fictional”, “hypothetical” or otherwise might “not be real.”

Admitted No Citation Found – This column indicates admissions of defeat. A “0” indicates that ChatGPT presented a paper (regardless of correctness or relevance), while a “1” indicates that ChatGPT was credited for the reference being “Correct” (but not Relevant) because it openly acknowledged that it did not have knowledge of papers on the topic.
Year – This contains the publication year of the reference provided.

Citation Count (Steve) – This contains Steve Lehr’s final record of the reference’s citation count at the time of coding.

Citation Count (Sunera) – This contains Suneragiri Liyanage’s final record of the reference’s citation count at the time of coding.

Citation Count (Composited) – This contains a mean average of Steve’s and Sunera’s final Citation Count, used for the final analysis of this variable.

